---
layout: post
title: Indian Union Budget - Expenditure Analysis
date: 2023-11-10 23:35:31-0500
description: Expenditure analysis and visualization of the Indian Govt. Union Budget for FY2023-24.
tags: js, goi
categories: data
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: false
---

Check [this](https://anku94.github.io/dash/dashboard.html) out! (Code [here](https://github.com/anku94/dataviz).)

Government budgets are opaque. They utterly, absolutely, completely dwarf smaller social sector organizations trying to make anything better. They are also poorly understood.

This is an attempt to demystify them - mostly for myself, maybe for others. This is also a WIP, and will (may?) get better over time. Understanding these datasets better helps us understand entrenched interest groups that have captured a disproportionate share of these sums (a typical pattern in democracies).

Some quick notes on the process:

1. Indian govt. is organized as ministries, which are internally organized as departments. Some departments are directly managed by the PMO (I think?) and do not have a parent ministry as such. Each ministry creates multiple demands for grant, one for each department.

2. I parsed a giant Excel sheet containing 100+ of these demands for grants, and organized them into a tree-like structure. This process was painful, and the python code that does this is a reflection of that. There are a couple of places where things get rounded off due to heuristics breaking down, but they should not cause massive issues.

3. The data visualization in in a decent JS stack (NextJS, React, Typescript, Plotly.js ...). Feel free to contribute!
